UnrealText: Synthesizing Realistic Scene Text Images from the Unreal World
Shangbang Long
Carnegie Mellon University
shangbal@cs.cmu.edu
Cong Yao
Megvii (Face++) Technology Inc.
yaocong2010@gmail.com
Figure 1: Demonstration of the proposed UnrealText synthesis engine, which achieves photo-realistic lighting conditions,
ﬁnds suitable text regions, and realizes natural occlusion (from left to right, zoomed-in views marked with green squares).
Abstract
Synthetic data has been a critical tool for training scene
text detection and recognition models. On the one hand,
synthetic word images have proven to be a successful sub-
stitute for real images in training scene text recognizers. On
the other hand, however, scene text detectors still heavily
rely on a large amount of manually annotated real-world
images, which are expensive. In this paper, we introduce
UnrealText, an efﬁcient image synthesis method that ren-
ders realistic images via a 3D graphics engine. 3D syn-
thetic engine provides realistic appearance by rendering
scene and text as a whole, and allows for better text re-
gion proposals with access to precise scene information,
e.g. normal and even object meshes. The comprehensive
experiments verify its effectiveness on both scene text de-
tection and recognition. We also generate a multilingual
version for future research into multilingual scene text de-
tection and recognition. Additionally, we re-annotate scene
text recognition datasets in a case-sensitive way and in-
clude punctuation marks for more comprehensive evalua-
tions. The code and the generated datasets are released at:
https://jyouhou.github.io/UnrealText/.
1. Introduction
With the resurgence of neural networks, the past few
years have witnessed signiﬁcant progress in the ﬁeld of
scene text detection and recognition. However, these mod-
els are data-thirsty, and it is expensive and sometimes dif-
ﬁcult, if not impossible, to collect enough data.
More-
over, the various applications, from trafﬁc sign reading in
autonomous vehicles to instant translation, require a large
amount of data speciﬁcally for each domain, further es-
calating this issue. Therefore, synthetic data and synthe-
sis algorithms are important for scene text tasks. Further-
more, synthetic data can provide detailed annotations, such
as character-level or even pixel-level ground truths that are
rare for real images due to high cost.
Currently, there exist several synthesis algorithms [46,
10, 6, 50] that have proven beneﬁcial. Especially, in scene
text recognition, training on synthetic data [10, 6] alone
has become a widely accepted standard practice. Some re-
searchers that attempt training on both synthetic and real
data only report marginal improvements [15, 20] on most
datasets. Mixing synthetic and real data is only improving
performance on a few difﬁcult cases that are not yet well
covered by existing synthetic datasets, such as seriously
blurred or curved text. This is reasonable, since cropped
text images have much simpler background, and synthetic
data enjoys advantages in larger vocabulary size and diver-
sity of backgrounds, fonts, and lighting conditions, as well
as thousands of times more data samples.
On the contrary, however, scene text detection is still
heavily dependent on real-world data. Synthetic data [6, 50]
plays a less signiﬁcant role, and only brings marginal im-
provements.
Existing synthesizers for scene text detec-
1
arXiv:2003.10608v6  [cs.CV]  18 Aug 2020
